# meshIoT
A Light-weight Multi-tenant Distributed IoT platform using idle devices on a mesh network

Presenting a Light-weight Multi-tenant Distributed IoT platform using idle devices on a mesh network. The project deals with the problem of sending sensor data to an off-site cloud, causing higher round trip time in each processing cycle. This project proposes a fully automatic approach that utilizes idle nodes in the local network for the required computations and hence reducing the time taken to a great extent.

Internet of Things (IoT) is a concept that visualizes all objects around us as part of internet. It’s coverage is very wide and includes variety of objects like smart phones, digital cameras, sensors, etc. Generally all this collected data from the IOT sensor is sent to the cloud for the data computation. Cloud services require developers to host services, applications and data on off-site data centers, which means the computing and storage resources are relatively far away from the end user’s devices. But due to application-specific reasons, a growing number of high quality services desire computational tasks to be located nearby. A number of research efforts have espoused the need and benefits of creating edge computing devices that distribute computational functions closer to the client devices.

Despite its power, the cloud model is not applicable to environments where operations are time-critical or internet connectivity is poor. This is especially true in scenarios such as tele-medicine and patient care, where milliseconds can have fatal consequences. The same can be said about vehicle to vehicle communications, where the prevention of collisions and accidents can not afford the latency caused by the round trip to the cloud server. The cloud paradigm is like having your brain command your limbs from miles away, it wont help you where you need quick reflexes.

Moreover, having every device connected to the cloud and sending raw data over the internet can have privacy, security and legal implications, especially when dealing with sensitive data that is subject to separate regulations in different countries. 

The fog layer is the perfect junction where there are enough compute, storage and networking resources to mimic cloud capabilities at the edge and support the local ingestion of data and the quick turnaround of results.Fog computing improves efficiency and reduces the amount of data that needs to be sent to the cloud for processing.

This project is basically built on the above idea of doing the processing of data as close to the data source as possible using the idle devices of the network as our processing machines. These machines do the computation on data and then return the result to the respective client. For processing environment on the nodes, we had two choices - Virtual Machines or Docker Containers. Seeing the benefits of Docker containers over Virtual Machines in terms of resource requirement and ease of maintenance we chose them. A log of IP: CPU usage and capabilities is maintained for all the volunteer machines on the network in a distributed hash table among the nodes which helps us in choosing the machine with minimum CPU usage for our computation.
